Joining Process 
Step 1
Please go through the Invitation Letter, thoroughly and if you are willing to participate in the ICICI
Bank Probationary Officer Training at ICICI Manipal Academy, Bangalore then please confirm your
participation by following the process given below: 
? Please visit any ICICI Bank Branch with the Deposit Slip (attached with Invitation Letter) &
make payment of the Refundable Admission Security Deposit of Rs.5000/- only. The
amount becomes refundable after on completion of 3 months training at ICICI Manipal
Academy, Bangalore. 
? SMS "POCONF< SPACE >Manipal Login ID" to 5676766. 
For Eg. If your Manipal Login ID is MMPO23011000123, 
then SMS “POCONF  MMPO23011000123” and send it to 5676766.
? Send a signed copy of the Invitation Letter to 
ICICI Bank PO Recruitment - May 2012 Batch, 
ICICI Bank Ltd, 6th floor, HRMG, 
Trans Trade Centre,  
Near Floral Deck Plaza, SEEPZ,
MIDC, Andheri (East) 
Mumbai- 400093. 
Step 2
To pursue the Training Programme, you would have to pay Rs.3,03,325/- to “Manipal Universal
Learning Private Limited”. This amount would be provided by ICICI Bank as a subsidized loan on
joining the Campus. It is mandatory for all PO Programme participants to avail of the loan. Further
details are given in your Invitation Letter. 
For availing the Loan facility you would be required to execute a Loan Agreement with the Bank
soon after joining the Campus for training.
To download the Loan Agreement     Click here  .
Guidelines / instructions for the loan process Click here.Step 3
You will also be required to furnish a Guarantee for repayment of the Loan, which would have to
be given by you immediately on the date of commencement of the Training Programme. 
To download the Personal Guarantee Document Click here.
To download the Affidavit for Submission of Original Marksheets/ Certificates   Click her  e  
Step 4
Request Merit listed applicants to proceed with their travel / other arrangements for ICICI Manipal
Academy, Bangalore on receipt of our confirmation.
You would be reimbursed with the cost of travel (restricted to 3
rd
 AC train fare) for the travel to
Bangalore by the shortest route from your current place of stay, on submission of original ticket
for the journey. Further details are given in your Invitation Letter. 
Step 5
Joining at ICICI Manipal Academy, Bangalore on the date as mentioned in the invitation letter.